oak-doc/src/site/markdown/query/indexing.md, before:

<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
  -->
  
# Indexing
  
## <a name="overview"></a> Overview
  
For queries to perform well Oak supports indexing content stored in repository. Indexing works
on diff between the base NodeState and modified NodeState. Depending on how diff is performed and
when the index content gets updated there are 3 types of indexing modes
  
1. Synchronous Indexing
2. Asynchronous Indexing
3. Near real time indexing

Indexing makes use of [Commit Editors](../architecture/nodestate.html#commit-editors). Some of the editors
are `IndexEditor` which are responsible for updating index content based on changes in main content. Currently
Oak has following in built `IndexEditor`s

1. PropertyIndexEditor
2. ReferenceEditor
3. LuceneIndexEditor
4. SolrIndexEditor

## <a name="indexing-flow"></a> Indexing Flow

`IndexEditor` are invoked as part of commit or as part of asynchronous diff process. For both cases at some stage
diff is performed between _before_ and _after_ state and passed to `IndexUpdate` which is responsible for invoking
`IndexEditor` based on _discovered_ index definitions.

### <a name="index-defnitions"></a> Index Definitions

Index definitions are nodes of type `oak:QueryIndexDefinition` which are stored under a special node named `oak:index`.
As part of diff traversal at each level `IndexUpdate` would look for `oak:index` nodes. The index definitions nodes have 
following properties

1. `type` - It determines the _type_ of index. For e.g. it can be `property`, `lucene`, `solr` etc. Based on the `type`
   `IndexUpdate` would look for `IndexEditor` of given type from registered `IndexEditorProvider`
2. `async` - It determines if the index is to be updated synchronously or asynchronously. It can have following values
    * `sync` - Also the default value. It indicates that index is meant to be updated as part of commit
    * `nrt`  - Indicates that index is a [near real time](#nrt-indexing) index. 
    * `async` - Indicates that index is to be updated asynchronously. In such a case this value is used to determine
       the [indexing lane](#indexing-lane)
    * Any other value which ends in `async`. 
    
Based on above 2 properties `IndexUpdate` creates `IndexEditor` instances as it traverses the diff and registers them
with itself passing on the callbacks for various changes

#### <a name="oak-index-nodes"></a>oak:index node 

Indexing logic supports placing `oak:index` nodes at any path. Depending on the location such indexes would only index
content which are present under those paths. So for e.g. if 'oak:index' is present at _'/content/oak:index'_ then indexes
defined under that node would only index repository state present under _'/content'_

Depending on type of index one can create these index definitions under root path ('/') or non root paths. Currently 
only `lucene` indexes support creating index definitions at non root paths. `property` indexes can only be created 
under root path i.e. under '/'

### <a name="sync-indexing"></a> Synchronous Indexing

Under synchronous indexing the index content gets updates as part of commit itself. Changes to both index content
and main content are done atomically in single commit. 

This mode is currently supported by `property` and `reference` indexes

### <a name="async-indexing"></a> Asynchronous Indexing

Asynchronous Indexing (also referred as async indexing) is performed using periodic scheduled jobs. As part of setup
Oak would schedule certain periodic jobs which would perform diff of the repository content and update the index content
based on that diff. 

Each periodic job i.e. `AsyncIndexUpdate` is assigned to an [indexing lane](#indexing-lane) and is scheduled to run at 
certain interval. At time of execution the job would perform work

1. Look for last indexed state via stored checkpoint data. If such a checkpoint exist then resolve the `NodeState` for 
   that checkpoint. If no such state exist or no such checkpoint is present then it treats it as initial indexing case where 
   base state is set to empty. This state is considered as `before` state
2. Create a checkpoint for _current_ state and refer to this as `after` state
3. Create an `IndexUpdate` instance bound to current _indexing lane_ and trigger a diff between the `before` and
   `after` state
4. `IndexUpdate` would then pick up index definitions which are bound to current indexing lane and would create 
   `IndexEditor` instances for them and pass them the diff callbacks
5. The diff traverses in a depth first manner and at the end of diff the `IndexEditor` would do final changes for 
   current indexing run. Depending on index implementation the index data can be either stored in NodeStore itself 
   (e.g. lucene) or in any remote store (e.g. solr)
6. `AsyncIndexUpdate` would then update the last indexed checkpoint to current checkpoint and do a commit. 

#### <a name="checkpoint"></a> Checkpoint

Checkpoint is a mechanism whereby a client of NodeStore can request it to ensure that repository state at that time
can be preserved and not garbage collected by revision garbage collection process. Later that state can be retrieved
back from NodeStore by passing the checkpoint back. You can treat checkpoint like a named revision or a tag in git 
repo.  

Async indexing makes use of checkpoint support to access older repository state. 

#### <a name="indexing-lane"></a> Indexing Lane

Indexing lane refers to a set of indexes which are to be indexed by given async indexer. Each index definition meant for
async indexing defines an `async` property whose value is the name of indexing lane. For e.g. consider following 2 index
definitions

    /oak:index/userIndex
      - jcr:primaryType = "oak:QueryIndexDefinition"
      - async = "async"
      
    /oak:index/assetIndex
      - jcr:primaryType = "oak:QueryIndexDefinition"
      - async = "fulltext-async"
      
Here _userIndex_ is bound to "async" indexing lane while _assetIndex_ is bound to  "fulltext-async" lane. Oak 
[setup](#async-index-setup) would configure 2 `AsyncIndexUpdate` jobs one for "async" and one for "fulltext-async".
When job for "async" would run it would only process index definition where `async` value is `async` while when job
for "fulltext-async" would run it would pick up index definitions where `async` value is `fulltext-async`.

These jobs can be scheduled to run at different intervals and also on different cluster nodes. Each job would keep its
own bookkeeping of checkpoint state and can be [paused and resumed](#async-index-mbean) separately.

Prior to Oak 1.4 there was only one indexing lane `async`. In Oak 1.4 support was added to create 2 lanes `async` and 
`fulltext-async`. With 1.6 its possible to [create multiple lanes](#async-index-setup). 

#### <a name="async-index-lag"></a> Indexing Lag

#### <a name="async-index-setup"></a> Setup

`Since 1.6`

#### <a name="cluster"></a> Clustered Setup

#### <a name="async-index-mbean"></a> Clustered Setup

## <a name="nrt-indexing"></a> Near Real Time Indexing

## Index Types

### Property Indexes

### Lucene Indexes

Commit message:

OAK-5946 - Document indexing flow (WIP)
 Add details around index lease

git-svn-id: https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/jackrabbit/oak/trunk@1787755 13f79535-47bb-0310-9956-ffa450edef68

oak-doc/src/site/markdown/query/indexing.md, after:

<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
  -->
  
# Indexing
  
## <a name="overview"></a> Overview
  
For queries to perform well Oak supports indexing content stored in repository. Indexing works
on diff between the base NodeState and modified NodeState. Depending on how diff is performed and
when the index content gets updated there are 3 types of indexing modes
  
1. Synchronous Indexing
2. Asynchronous Indexing
3. Near real time indexing

Indexing makes use of [Commit Editors](../architecture/nodestate.html#commit-editors). Some of the editors
are `IndexEditor` which are responsible for updating index content based on changes in main content. Currently
Oak has following in built `IndexEditor`s

1. PropertyIndexEditor
2. ReferenceEditor
3. LuceneIndexEditor
4. SolrIndexEditor

## <a name="indexing-flow"></a> Indexing Flow

`IndexEditor` are invoked as part of commit or as part of asynchronous diff process. For both cases at some stage
diff is performed between _before_ and _after_ state and passed to `IndexUpdate` which is responsible for invoking
`IndexEditor` based on _discovered_ index definitions.

### <a name="index-defnitions"></a> Index Definitions

Index definitions are nodes of type `oak:QueryIndexDefinition` which are stored under a special node named `oak:index`.
As part of diff traversal at each level `IndexUpdate` would look for `oak:index` nodes. The index definitions nodes have 
following properties

1. `type` - It determines the _type_ of index. For e.g. it can be `property`, `lucene`, `solr` etc. Based on the `type`
   `IndexUpdate` would look for `IndexEditor` of given type from registered `IndexEditorProvider`
2. `async` - It determines if the index is to be updated synchronously or asynchronously. It can have following values
    * `sync` - Also the default value. It indicates that index is meant to be updated as part of commit
    * `nrt`  - Indicates that index is a [near real time](#nrt-indexing) index. 
    * `async` - Indicates that index is to be updated asynchronously. In such a case this value is used to determine
       the [indexing lane](#indexing-lane)
    * Any other value which ends in `async`. 
    
Based on above 2 properties `IndexUpdate` creates `IndexEditor` instances as it traverses the diff and registers them
with itself passing on the callbacks for various changes

#### <a name="oak-index-nodes"></a>oak:index node 

Indexing logic supports placing `oak:index` nodes at any path. Depending on the location such indexes would only index
content which are present under those paths. So for e.g. if 'oak:index' is present at _'/content/oak:index'_ then indexes
defined under that node would only index repository state present under _'/content'_

Depending on type of index one can create these index definitions under root path ('/') or non root paths. Currently 
only `lucene` indexes support creating index definitions at non root paths. `property` indexes can only be created 
under root path i.e. under '/'

### <a name="sync-indexing"></a> Synchronous Indexing

Under synchronous indexing the index content gets updates as part of commit itself. Changes to both index content
and main content are done atomically in single commit. 

This mode is currently supported by `property` and `reference` indexes

### <a name="async-indexing"></a> Asynchronous Indexing

Asynchronous Indexing (also referred as async indexing) is performed using periodic scheduled jobs. As part of setup
Oak would schedule certain periodic jobs which would perform diff of the repository content and update the index content
based on that diff. 

Each periodic job i.e. `AsyncIndexUpdate` is assigned to an [indexing lane](#indexing-lane) and is scheduled to run at 
certain interval. At time of execution the job would perform work

1. Look for last indexed state via stored checkpoint data. If such a checkpoint exist then resolve the `NodeState` for 
   that checkpoint. If no such state exist or no such checkpoint is present then it treats it as initial indexing case where 
   base state is set to empty. This state is considered as `before` state
2. Create a checkpoint for _current_ state and refer to this as `after` state
3. Create an `IndexUpdate` instance bound to current _indexing lane_ and trigger a diff between the `before` and
   `after` state
4. `IndexUpdate` would then pick up index definitions which are bound to current indexing lane and would create 
   `IndexEditor` instances for them and pass them the diff callbacks
5. The diff traverses in a depth first manner and at the end of diff the `IndexEditor` would do final changes for 
   current indexing run. Depending on index implementation the index data can be either stored in NodeStore itself 
   (e.g. lucene) or in any remote store (e.g. solr)
6. `AsyncIndexUpdate` would then update the last indexed checkpoint to current checkpoint and do a commit. 

#### <a name="checkpoint"></a> Checkpoint

Checkpoint is a mechanism whereby a client of NodeStore can request it to ensure that repository state at that time
can be preserved and not garbage collected by revision garbage collection process. Later that state can be retrieved
back from NodeStore by passing the checkpoint back. You can treat checkpoint like a named revision or a tag in git 
repo.  

Async indexing makes use of checkpoint support to access older repository state. 

#### <a name="indexing-lane"></a> Indexing Lane

Indexing lane refers to a set of indexes which are to be indexed by given async indexer. Each index definition meant for
async indexing defines an `async` property whose value is the name of indexing lane. For e.g. consider following 2 index
definitions

    /oak:index/userIndex
      - jcr:primaryType = "oak:QueryIndexDefinition"
      - async = "async"
      
    /oak:index/assetIndex
      - jcr:primaryType = "oak:QueryIndexDefinition"
      - async = "fulltext-async"
      
Here _userIndex_ is bound to "async" indexing lane while _assetIndex_ is bound to  "fulltext-async" lane. Oak 
[setup](#async-index-setup) would configure 2 `AsyncIndexUpdate` jobs one for "async" and one for "fulltext-async".
When job for "async" would run it would only process index definition where `async` value is `async` while when job
for "fulltext-async" would run it would pick up index definitions where `async` value is `fulltext-async`.

These jobs can be scheduled to run at different intervals and also on different cluster nodes. Each job would keep its
own bookkeeping of checkpoint state and can be [paused and resumed](#async-index-mbean) separately.

Prior to Oak 1.4 there was only one indexing lane `async`. In Oak 1.4 support was added to create 2 lanes `async` and 
`fulltext-async`. With 1.6 its possible to [create multiple lanes](#async-index-setup). 

#### <a name="cluster"></a> Clustered Setup

In a clustered setup it needs to be ensured by the host application that async indexing jobs for specific lanes are to 
be run as singleton in the cluster. If `AsyncIndexUpdate` for same lane gets executed concurrently on different cluster
nodes then it can lead to race conditions where old checkpoint gets lost leading to reindexing of the indexes.

Refer to [clustering](../clustering.html#scheduled-jobs) for more details on how the host application should schedule
such indexing jobs

##### <a name="async-index-lease"></a> Indexing Lease

`AsyncIndexUpdate` has an inbuilt lease logic to ensure that even if the jobs gets scheduled to run on different cluster
nodes then also only one of them runs. This is done by keeping a lease property which gets periodically updated as 
indexing progresses. 

An `AsyncIndexUpdate` run would skip indexing if current lease has not expired i.e. if the last 
update of lease was done long ago (default 15 mins) then it would be assumed that cluster node doing indexing is not 
available and some other node would take over.

The lease logic can delay start of indexing if the system is not stopped cleanly. As of Oak 1.6 this does not affect
non clustered setup like those based on SegmentNodeStore but only [affects DocumentNodeStore][OAK-5159] based setups 

#### <a name="async-index-lag"></a> Indexing Lag

#### <a name="async-index-setup"></a> Setup

`Since 1.6`




#### <a name="async-index-mbean"></a> Clustered Setup

## <a name="nrt-indexing"></a> Near Real Time Indexing

## Index Types

### Property Indexes

### Lucene Indexes

[OAK-5159]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OAK-5159
