oak-doc/src/site/markdown/dos_and_donts.md, before:

<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
  -->

## Session refresh behavior

Oak is based on the MVCC model where each session starts with a snapshot
view of the repository. Concurrent changes from other sessions *are not
visible* to a session until it gets refreshed. A session can be refreshed
either explicitly by calling the ``refresh()`` method or implicitly by
direct-to-workspace methods or by the auto-refresh mode. Also observation
event delivery causes a session to be refreshed.

By default the auto-refresh mode automatically refreshes all sessions that
have been idle for more than one second, and it's also possible to
explicitly set the auto-refresh parameters. A typical approach would be
for long-lived admin sessions to set the auto-refresh mode to keep the
session always up to date with latest changes from the repository.

### Pattern: One session for one request/operation

One of the key patterns targeted by Oak is a web application that serves
HTTP requests. The recommended way to handle such cases is to use a
separate session for each HTTP request, and never to refresh that session.

### Anti pattern: concurrent session access

Oak is designed to be virtually lock free as long as sessions are not shared
across threads. Don't access the same session instance concurrently from
multiple threads. When doing so Oak will protect its internal data structures
from becoming corrupted but will not make any guarantees beyond that. In
particular violating clients might suffer from lock contentions or deadlocks.

If Oak detects concurrent write access to a session it will log a warning. 
For concurrent read access the warning will only be logged if `DEBUG` level 
is enabled for `org.apache.jackrabbit.oak.jcr.delegate.SessionDelegate`.
In this case the stack trace of the other session involved will also be 
logged. For efficiency reasons the stack trace will not be logged if 
`DEBUG` level is not enabled.

### Large number of direct child node

Oak scales to large number of direct child nodes of a node as long as those
are *not* orderable. For orderable child nodes Oak keeps the order in an
internal property, which will lead to a performance degradation when the list
grows too large. For such scenarios Oak provides the ``oak:Unstructured`` node
type, which is equivalent to ``nt:unstructured`` except that it is not orderable.

### Large Multi Value Property

Using nodes with large multi value property would not scale well. Depending on 
NodeStore it might hit some size limit restriction also. For e.g. with 
DocumentMK the MVP would be stored in the backing Document which on Mongo has a 
16MB limit.

### Inlining large binaries

Most of the `BlobStore` provide an option to inline small binary content as part of 
node property itself. For example `FileDataStore` supports `minRecordLength` property.
If that is set to say 4096 then any binary with size less than 4kb would be stored
as part of node data itself and not in BlobStore.

Its recommended to not set very high value for this as depending on implementation it
might hit some limit causing the commit to fail. For e.g. SegmentMK enforces a limit of
8k for any inlined binary value. Further this would also lead to repository growth as
by default when binaries are stored in BlobStore then they are deduplicated.

### Don't use Thread.interrupt()

`Thread.interrupt()` can severely impact or even stop the repository. The reason for 
this is that Oak internally uses various classes from the `nio` package that implement 
`InterruptibleChannel`, which are [asynchronously closed](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/nio/channels/InterruptibleChannel.html) 
when receiving an `InterruptedException` while blocked on IO. See [OAK-2609](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OAK-2609).

Commit message:

OAK-4567 - Define oak:Resource nodetype as non referenceable alternative to nt:resource
Apply updated patch from Angela

git-svn-id: https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/jackrabbit/oak/trunk@1753439 13f79535-47bb-0310-9956-ffa450edef68

oak-doc/src/site/markdown/dos_and_donts.md, after:

<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
  -->

## Session refresh behavior

Oak is based on the MVCC model where each session starts with a snapshot
view of the repository. Concurrent changes from other sessions *are not
visible* to a session until it gets refreshed. A session can be refreshed
either explicitly by calling the ``refresh()`` method or implicitly by
direct-to-workspace methods or by the auto-refresh mode. Also observation
event delivery causes a session to be refreshed.

By default the auto-refresh mode automatically refreshes all sessions that
have been idle for more than one second, and it's also possible to
explicitly set the auto-refresh parameters. A typical approach would be
for long-lived admin sessions to set the auto-refresh mode to keep the
session always up to date with latest changes from the repository.

### Pattern: One session for one request/operation

One of the key patterns targeted by Oak is a web application that serves
HTTP requests. The recommended way to handle such cases is to use a
separate session for each HTTP request, and never to refresh that session.

### Anti pattern: concurrent session access

Oak is designed to be virtually lock free as long as sessions are not shared
across threads. Don't access the same session instance concurrently from
multiple threads. When doing so Oak will protect its internal data structures
from becoming corrupted but will not make any guarantees beyond that. In
particular violating clients might suffer from lock contentions or deadlocks.

If Oak detects concurrent write access to a session it will log a warning. 
For concurrent read access the warning will only be logged if `DEBUG` level 
is enabled for `org.apache.jackrabbit.oak.jcr.delegate.SessionDelegate`.
In this case the stack trace of the other session involved will also be 
logged. For efficiency reasons the stack trace will not be logged if 
`DEBUG` level is not enabled.

### Large number of direct child node

Oak scales to large number of direct child nodes of a node as long as those
are *not* orderable. For orderable child nodes Oak keeps the order in an
internal property, which will lead to a performance degradation when the list
grows too large. For such scenarios Oak provides the ``oak:Unstructured`` node
type, which is equivalent to ``nt:unstructured`` except that it is not orderable.

### Large Multi Value Property

Using nodes with large multi value property would not scale well. Depending on 
NodeStore it might hit some size limit restriction also. For e.g. with 
DocumentMK the MVP would be stored in the backing Document which on Mongo has a 
16MB limit.

### Inlining large binaries

Most of the `BlobStore` provide an option to inline small binary content as part of 
node property itself. For example `FileDataStore` supports `minRecordLength` property.
If that is set to say 4096 then any binary with size less than 4kb would be stored
as part of node data itself and not in BlobStore.

Its recommended to not set very high value for this as depending on implementation it
might hit some limit causing the commit to fail. For e.g. SegmentMK enforces a limit of
8k for any inlined binary value. Further this would also lead to repository growth as
by default when binaries are stored in BlobStore then they are deduplicated.

### Creating files

The default node type provided by JCR 1.0 to model file structure using
`nt:file` is to add `jcr:content` child with type `nt:resource`, which makes
that content referenceable.

If the file has no need to be referenceable it is recommended to use the
node type `oak:Resource` instead and add the mixin type `mix:referenceble`
only upon demand (see [OAK-4567](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OAK-4567))

### Don't use Thread.interrupt()

`Thread.interrupt()` can severely impact or even stop the repository. The reason for 
this is that Oak internally uses various classes from the `nio` package that implement 
`InterruptibleChannel`, which are [asynchronously closed](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/nio/channels/InterruptibleChannel.html) 
when receiving an `InterruptedException` while blocked on IO. See [OAK-2609](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/OAK-2609).
